ENH: Removed requirement for C-contiguity when changing to dtype of different size (#20722)
numpy/numpy: doc/release/upcoming_changes/20722.expired.rst

Changing to dtype of different size in F-contiguous arrays no longer permitted
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Deprecated behavior allowed the following::

Reviewer: Sorry, probably clearer with strings:
```
>>> x = np.array(["aA", "bB", "cC", "dD", "eE", "fF"]).reshape(1, 2, 3).transpose()
>>> x.view('U1')  # old behavior
DeprecationWarning: ...
array([[['a'],
        ['d']],

       [['A'],
        ['D']],

       [['b'],
        ['e']],

       [['B'],
        ['E']],

       [['c'],
        ['f']],

       [['C'],
        ['F']]], dtype='<U1')
>>> x.view('U1')  # new behavior
array([[['a', 'A'],
        ['d', 'D']],

       [['b', 'B'],
        ['e', 'E']],

       [['c', 'C'],
        ['f', 'F']]], dtype='<U1')
```

> Deprecated behavior allowed the following::

Reviewer: Note this can only happen when the array is >2D and has 1 as its last dimension. Otherwise, your original description is still correct.

>     >>> x = np.arange(3, 4, 5, dtype='<i4').reshape(3, 4, 5).transpose()

Reviewer: ```
ValueError: cannot reshape array of size 1 into shape (3,4,5)
```

Changing to dtype of different size in F-contiguous arrays no longer permitted
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Deprecated behavior allowed the following counterintuitive result::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Behavior deprecated in NumPy 1.11.0 allowed the following counterintuitive result::
```

    >>> x = np.array(["aA", "bB", "cC", "dD", "eE", "fF"]).reshape(1, 2, 3).transpose()
    >>> x.view('U1')  # deprecated behavior, shape (6, 2, 1)
    DeprecationWarning: ...
    array([[['a'],
            ['d']],
    
           [['A'],
            ['D']],
    
           [['b'],
            ['e']],
    
           [['B'],
            ['E']],
    
           [['c'],
            ['f']],
    
           [['C'],
            ['F']]], dtype='<U1')

Now that the deprecation has expired, dtype reassignment only happens along the
last axis, so the above will result in::

    >>> x.view('U1')  # new behavior, shape (3, 2, 2)
    array([[['a', 'A'],
            ['d', 'D']],
    
           [['b', 'B'],
            ['e', 'E']],
    
           [['c', 'C'],
            ['f', 'F']]], dtype='<U1')

When the last axis is not contiguous, an error is now raised in place of the `DeprecationWarning`::

>     >>> x = np.arange(3 * 4 * 5, dtype='<i4').reshape(3, 4, 5).transpose()

Reviewer: Can you change this example to use strings too, so that the remarks below about `view("U1")` make sense?

Changing to dtype of different size in F-contiguous arrays no longer permitted
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Deprecated behavior allowed the following counterinuitive result::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deprecated behavior allowed the following counterintuitive result::
```

    >>> x = np.array(["aA", "bB", "cC", "dD", "eE", "fF"]).reshape(1, 2, 3).transpose()
    >>> x.view('U1')  # deprecated behavior, shape (6, 2, 1)
    DeprecationWarning: ...
    array([[['a'],
            ['d']],
    
           [['A'],
            ['D']],
    
           [['b'],
            ['e']],
    
           [['B'],
            ['E']],
    
           [['c'],
            ['f']],
    
           [['C'],
            ['F']]], dtype='<U1')

> After deprecation is expired, dtype reassignment only happens along the last

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the deprecation has expired, dtype reassignment only happens along the last
```

axis, so the above will result in::

    >>> x.view('U1')  # new behavior, shape (3, 2, 2)
    array([[['a', 'A'],
            ['d', 'D']],
    
           [['b', 'B'],
            ['e', 'E']],
    
           [['c', 'C'],
            ['f', 'F']]], dtype='<U1')

Without a trailing unit or contiguous dimension, the result would have been::

>     ValueError: To change to a dtype of a different size, the last axis must be contiguous

Reviewer: I think this could do with an example too (the one you had originally)

The new behavior is equivalent to the more intuitive::

    >>> x.copy().view('U1')

> To simulate the old behavior of F-contiguous arrays::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simulate the old behavior of F-contiguous arrays, use::
```

           [['c', 'C'],
            ['f', 'F']]], dtype='<U1')

> Without a trailing unit or contiguous dimension, an error is raised::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the last axis is not contiguous, an error is now raised in place of the `DeprecationWarning`::
```

Reviewer: "unit" is just a special case of contiguous
